Initially I was tasked with working on the frontend development, where I aimed to leverage and enhance the skills identified in my initial assessment last fall. However, at the start I started to also look at the backend in my free time as well and eventually we decided that I would actually work on the backend mainly as we decided to use cloud software for our backend and that is something I had been wanting to get experience in and also learn about. My primary responsibilities included supporting other teammates in setting up/maintaining backend systems when help was needed, also setting up a websocket API in AWS and using their api gateway service. This involved creating lambda functions to dictate the logic of the websocket routes.  which involved a detailed application of websocket understanding.

Throughout the course of the project, I built upon my skills in research and reading documentation as that was a big part of learning AWS, collaborating with others effectively and taking into account everyones opinions/idea, javascript development as that is what we used in react native, and also my understanding and knowledge of Amazon Cloud services. One of my key successes was creating and maintaining a websocket api that used several different lambda functions that controlled the routes logic for connections to be made, store info, and communicate with one connection to another. Despite encountering challenges such as there not being a lot of info out there as I could find about intermediate to more advanced websocket implementation and required a lot of AWS documentation reading which I found not always to be straightforward and easy to understand. This experience has been instrumental in refining my abilities and preparing me for future professional challenges.
