My group’s project is ‘Seek and Hide’. We intend to develop a mobile application that will notify the user when they are close in proximity to another user and then both users/players will identify each other either with a picture or description. The goal of Seek and Hide is to connect people in a safe and friendly manner. The major areas of this project are mobile application development, user interface design, and location management. I believe the major obstacles I will face are learning mobile development and interfacing with device location information. This project will help me enhance my coding skills and give me an area for exploration in application development.

The classes I have taken that will help me with this project are Data Structures (CS2028C), Programming Languages (CS3003), Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS4071), Database Design/Development (CS4092), and User Interface 1 (CS5167). Data Structures and Programming Languages will help my group with choosing what framework to use and how to best write our code. Design and Analysis of Algorithms will help us to manage proximity notifications. Database Design/Development will be valuable when managing user information. The design methodologies taught in User Interface 1 will be useful when deciding how to design the app. A class that I have not taken yet that would be very useful is the Mobile Application Development course.

My first two co-ops were with Honeywell Intelligrated as a Controls Engineer Co-op and my last three co-ops were with Trew as a Software Engineer Co-op. At Intelligrated I mostly used their proprietary HMI software to work on customer projects and learned how their system works. At Trew I worked with non-proprietary software to create customer’s HMIs as well as on-site testing our product. My experiences at Honeywell will mostly benefit me in the non-technical side of the project, I worked in a team setting with a frequently changing schedule. My work at Trew will be more beneficial on the technical side, I developed with C# for one project. I used Python for several different projects and was also introduced to CSS while at Trew.

This project excites me for several reasons, learning mobile application development, getting hands on experience, working with a team I enjoy, and seeing how the app will bring people together. Learning mobile development is exciting to me because I will be able to use it in my future career and building something publicly available is very cool to me. The experience I gain will help reinvigorate my passion for Computer Science, especially getting to ‘self-manage’. I am very excited to work with my team, I have worked with each of my teammates in the past and have learned from them on our previous projects. The goal of our app is to bring people together, both friends and strangers. It will be neat to see what settings people can use the app in, one I can see is the freshmen at UC using it to meet other students.

My preliminary idea of our solution is an Android application that can be used on any android phone with location capabilities and access to the android store. The steps I think we will take to design our solution involve each of us generating ideas, agreeing on the best option, and proceeding from there. In the process of designing the app we could turn to my User Interface 1 professor for feedback. As far as informal self-evaluation goes, I will be happy with my contributions as long as I contribute my share. We will know we are done with the project when we have achieved the milestones that we set for ourselves, even if there are opportunities for further development. I will know I have done a good job when I have reached the project goals and am happy to have contributed to the project.
